Readme
========================
This document contains description of how the script works and the code book describing the variables.

### What the script does

The R script called run_analysis.R that does the following:

- Merges the training and the test sets to create one data set.
- Extracts only the measurements on the mean and standard deviation for each measurement. 
- Uses descriptive activity names to name the activities in the data set
- Appropriately labels the data set with descriptive variable names. 

The resulting data set is used to create and export tidy dataset (tidyData.txt):

- Independent tidy data set with the average of each variable for each activity and each subject.

### How the script works

The scipt wokrs when located in the data folder (inside UCI HAR Dataset folder).

- read test data, cbind activity code
- read train data, cbind activity code
- merge training and test data, name columns
- subset only mean() and std() columns
- replace activity codes with activity names
- cbind subjects
- use ddply function (plyr package) to create tidy set with the average of each variable for each activity and each subject
- write tidy data to text file (tidyData.txt)

### CookBook

Description of columns in the resulting tidy dataset:

The features selected for the original database come from the accelerometer and gyroscope 3-axial raw signals tAcc-XYZ and tGyro-XYZ. These time domain signals (prefix 't' to denote time) were captured at a constant rate of 50 Hz. Then they were filtered using a median filter and a 3rd order low pass Butterworth filter with a corner frequency of 20 Hz to remove noise. Similarly, the acceleration signal was then separated into body and gravity acceleration signals (tBodyAcc-XYZ and tGravityAcc-XYZ) using another low pass Butterworth filter with a corner frequency of 0.3 Hz. 

Subsequently, the body linear acceleration and angular velocity were derived in time to obtain Jerk signals (tBodyAccJerk-XYZ and tBodyGyroJerk-XYZ). Also the magnitude of these three-dimensional signals were calculated using the Euclidean norm (tBodyAccMag, tGravityAccMag, tBodyAccJerkMag, tBodyGyroMag, tBodyGyroJerkMag). 

Finally a Fast Fourier Transform (FFT) was applied to some of these signals producing fBodyAcc-XYZ, fBodyAccJerk-XYZ, fBodyGyro-XYZ, fBodyAccJerkMag, fBodyGyroMag, fBodyGyroJerkMag. (Note the 'f' to indicate frequency domain signals). 

These signals were used to estimate variables of the feature vector for each pattern:  
'-XYZ' is used to denote 3-axial signals in the X, Y and Z directions.

- tBodyAcc-XYZ
- tGravityAcc-XYZ
- tBodyAccJerk-XYZ
- tBodyGyro-XYZ
- tBodyGyroJerk-XYZ
- tBodyAccMag
- tGravityAccMag
- tBodyAccJerkMag
- tBodyGyroMag
- tBodyGyroJerkMag
- fBodyAcc-XYZ
- fBodyAccJerk-XYZ
- fBodyGyro-XYZ
- fBodyAccMag
- fBodyAccJerkMag
- fBodyGyroMag
- fBodyGyroJerkMag

The set of variables that were estimated from these signals are: 

- mean(): Mean value
- std(): Standard deviation

**Note: The tidy set generated by the script contains mean of the all values for each activity and each subject!**